 






          DIGITAL

          Read Before Installing or Using VAX APL Version 3.2

          AV-W105H-TE

          Whether you are a new or a continuing VAX APL customer,
          please take time to read the following information
          about your product.

          Installation Information

          APL Version 3.2 requires VMS Version 5.2 or higher, VMS
          Workstation Software Version 4.1 or DECwindows Version
          2.0 on VMS Version 5.3 or higher.

          Before you install APL Version 3.2, you must register
          the product using the Product Authorization Key (PAK)
          provided in the kit. See the VMS License Management
          Utility Manual for registration instructions.

          Previous versions of APL do not need to be installed
          before this version.

          Release Notes Information

          The release notes for APL Version 3.2 contain impor-
          tant installation-related instructions and a summary of
          technical changes, new features, differences, documen-
          tation errors, restrictions, and incompatibilities.

          You can read the release notes before installing APL
          by invoking VMSINSTAL and following the instructions
          that start the installation procedure. You can also
          read release notes following the installation of APL by
          typing or printing the file SYS$HELP:APL032.RELEASE_
          NOTES.

 


                                                           Page 2



          Contents of This Kit

          o  Indented Bill Report (BIL) and Bill of Materials
             (BOM)

             Please read the BIL and BOM enclosed in this kit
             and check to see that all items listed are actually
             in your kit. If your kit is damaged or any items
             are missing, call your Digital customer services
             representative.

          o  Media

             If you ordered media, you will find the media and
             the VAX APL Installation Guide in this kit. Consult
             the VAX APL Installation Guide for information about
             installing APL on your system.

          o  Documentation

             Depending on your order, this kit may include copies
             of the following APL documentation:

                VAX APL Reference Manual Vol. 1
                VAX APL Reference Manual Vol. 2

             Note that the VAX APL Installation Guide is included
             with the media.

             ©Digital Equipment Corporation. 1990. All rights
             reserved.

 


                                                           Page 3



          o  Product Authorization Key (PAK)

             The PAK contains information necessary to register
             APL before you install it.

          o  Software Product Description (SPD)

             The SPD provides an overview of the APL kit and its
             features.

          o  System Support Addendum (SSA)

             The SSA describes the technical environment in which
             the product is supported.

          o  Software Performance Report (SPR)

             Use this form to report any problems with APL,
             provided you have purchased warranty services.

          o  Software Update Survey Card

             By completing this card after you install APL, you
             provide valuable feedback to Digital on installa-
             tion quality. Your feedback helps us to understand
             customer needs and improve our products.

          A Final Note

          Digital prides itself on responding to customer needs.
          In order to continue serving you, we need your com-
          ments. Each manual contains preaddressed, postage-paid
          Reader's Comments forms at the back. If you find errors
          in a manual or want to make comments about it, please
          fill out one of these forms and send it to us.
